So I had a Raspberry Pi just in a box, kept in a drawer. I tried to do some stuff with it before but never really found any real use case.



Until now.



A little back story:


I made a Discord bot, called Alfie (after the one and only, Alfred from Batman), back in 2023. A few friends and I keep sharing content (blogs, videos, etc) that we find cool or super interesting. We would have a group on Discord where we just pinned these links. Little did we know that Discord has a limit to how many pins can we have in a group. So we had the idea of making a Discord bot that would send these links to an Excel sheet that would act as a database. One of the people recommended, what if we have a channel in Discord itself as a database?



Turns out, a pretty fricking great idea.



So I started building the bot, thanks to docs and ChatGPT, I ended up building the bot within 2 days with a lot of testing if it does what it needs to do along with some additional functionality. The question was, however, where to run this bot continuously for it to work?



For the longest time, it was running on a Replit repl with a pinging service that kept checking in on the repl to keep it active. I thought this was amazing, I didn't have to pay a single penny and stuff just works...



Until the pinging service removed their free tier. That was annoying cause well, the bot also stopped working. There were no other ways I could think of to get this bot to work. I also would love to pay to run the bot on the cloud but I'll save that for when I start earning enough.



One day, I was just cleaning out the drawers in my study table and I found Raspberry Pi! I always thought Arduino and RPis were super cool but never really tried to work with them in a useful. Well, perfect opportunity!



I set up the OS on RPi, installed Node and npm, cloned the repository where I had Alfie's code, and tested to see if it worked.



AND IT DID!



Just today, it hit me that I can do so much more. I always wanted to use ChatGPT or just a good LLM through WhatsApp or Discord but all the APIs required to pay for credits. I did hear news of some LLM models that came out that we can run locally which might even be a little better than GPT. This got me thinking about making a server that would hit this LLM that I will host on the RPi and connect that through Whatsapp API or Discord API. I know what my next project is going to be and I'm excited about it.



I also think what if this is the future? What if everyone had a RPi at home where they could self-host particular things they wanted to like LLMs or full-on servers. We went from handling servers ourselves to IaaS but what if we could get the best of both worlds? Sounds super interesting to me.



Maybe, just maybe, self-hosting is the future.
